---
title: TPM vs HSM - What’s the Difference?
description: On the surface, trusted platform modules and hardware security modules seem to be performing similar functions. In this blog post we dive a bit deeper to find out what is the difference between the two.
articleTitle: TPM vs HSM - What’s the Difference?
date: "2021-11-16"
author: Ev Kontsevoy
logo:
  image: ./assets/hsm-vs-tpm.png
  alt: hsm vs tpm
tags:
  - security
layout: blogArticle
---

import { EmailSubscribeViolet } from "components/EmailSubscribe";

Hardware security modules (HSM) and trusted platform modules (TPM) seemingly do
the same thing: they manage secret keys and enable data protection.

But what does “managing secrets” mean, and what’s the difference between the
two? Before diving deeper, let’s explore why computers need help with managing
their secrets.

## What are TPMs and HSMs for?

Sensitive data needs to be protected, that is why data centers employ physical
security. But what if an attacker gains remote access to a computer system over
the Internet? Encryption can provide an additional layer of protection.
Encryption algorithms use secret keys, sometimes simply called secrets. An
attacker must also know the secret to decrypt the data.

But where do we store the keys? The good ones are long and hard to remember,
and we need quite a few of them for different reasons. Storing data is what
computers are for. Thus, we have the Catch-22: we need computers to store
encrypted data, and we also need them to store an encryption key, which itself
is data!

The trivial example illustrates the need for devices like HSM and TPM. Their
purpose is to allow computers to resolve the Catch-22 above.

## What is a HSM?

HSM stands for hardware security module. HSMs are hardware devices that can
reside on a computer motherboard, but the more advanced models are contained in
their own chassis and can be accessed via the network.

The basic principle of why HSMs are better than simply storing secrets on an
SSD is because they allow applications to easily generate secrets and perform
operations on secrets, but they do not allow them to easily read secrets.

In other words, a piece of software can use an HSM to generate a key, and send
data to an HSM for encryption, decryption or cryptographic signing, but it
cannot know what the key is. In fact, even physically gaining access to an HSM
is not a guarantee that the keys can be revealed. Many HSMs automatically
destroy keys if tampering attempts are detected.

If an attacker gains access to a computer system with encrypted data, they will
not be able to decrypt it without a key. And if they gain access to an HSM,
they will not be able to read the keys.

But HSMs can do more than just storing keys. High-end models can offer
significant hardware acceleration of cryptographic functions such as key
generation, encryption, decryption and cryptographic signing and signature
validation.

## What is a TPM?

TPM stands for trusted platform module. TPMs are small hardware devices that
are usually embedded into computer motherboards.

A TPM contains a secret key which is not accessible to the outside world.
Because a TPM is usually integrated with its host computer, it can be used to
uniquely sign/encrypt and decrypt data created on this computer. One practical
application of this is securing boot: a computer UEFI will refuse to boot if
its storage device or other hardware has been tampered with, using a TPM as a
root of trust.

A TPM also allows storing other keys and performing basic cryptographic
operations, similar to an HSM.

## What is the difference between TPM and HSM?

So far it seems that a TPM is just a smaller HSM embedded onto a computer
motherboard. This is not quite true:

- HSMs are more powerful. High end HSMs can be faster than a computer CPU when
  performing cryptographic operations and, in addition to enhanced security,
  they provide meaningful acceleration of encryption or decryption. Some are
  even capable of running their own operating system and executing custom
  programs designed specifically to run inside of an HSM!
- HSMs are generic devices that conform to APIs such as PKCS #11. They are
  accessible to any application that wants to use their services. While TPMs
  are usually more closely integrated with their host computers, their
  operating system, their booting sequence, or the built-in hard drive
  encryption.
- HSMs are meant to be used in data centers, while the scope of a TPM is
  usually a single system.

<EmailSubscribeViolet />

## Usage examples for TPMs and HSMs

All iPhones contain a TPM inside, but Apple calls it T2. This chip secures the
lock/unlock sequence, the booting process and provides the encryption for the
iPhone’s storage. It ensures that even if the phone’s storage is physically
removed, it will be impossible to read elsewhere.

Another example is protecting data centers. Remote access to cloud computing
resources is usually implemented using remote access protocols such as SSH,
RDP, or built-in protocols for databases. The common configuration of these
protocols requires every resource to know the key of every user. This is not
only insecure, it is also impractical when the number of servers, databases, or
users constantly grows.

A much better approach is to move away from keys to certificates, e.g.
automatically-expiring keys signed by a certificate authority. This means that
instead of protecting thousands of keys, only a single key called a certificate
authority (CA) needs to be stored in a secure place, such as an HSM.

[Teleport](https://goteleport.com/) is an open-source certificate-based multi-protocol access proxy
that allows data center and cloud operators to get rid of keys in their
infrastructure and reduce the attack surface to a single, most secure component - an HSM.

## Conclusion

So, what is the difference between TPM and HSM? In a nutshell, they are quite
similar but HSMs offer more features, more performance and are available in
more form factors at a much higher price.
