---
title: "Securely Access Compute Resources in Cloud"
alternateTitle: "How to Securely Access Compute Resources in Cloud Environments"
description: "Infrastructure Security best practices for the cloud and AWS - certificate authorities, are so important, and how to create a more secure infrastructure access process for the cloud."
layout: tutorial
publicationDate: "2020-09-21"
associatedLabels:
  ["teleport", "SSH", "infosec", "PAM", "Sales", "OSS", "ZeroTrust"]
videoId: "CTewLcYpSx0"
videoLength: "29:24"
---

## Securely Access Compute Resources in Cloud - Overview

Virag Mody, Technical Writer for Teleport, gave a concise talk on Infrastructure Security best practices for SKILupDays DevSecOps 2020. In the talk, he covers why certificate authorities are so important, and what individuals can do to create a more secure infrastructure access process.

### Four Principles to Securely Access Compute Resources in Cloud

- Base Decisions on Identity, Not Secrets
- Make It Easy to Use
- No Private Networks, Only Public
- Centralize Audit and Logging

### What is next?

- [Get Started with Teleport](https://goteleport.com/pricing/)
- [Read Best Practices for Secure Infrastructure Access TechPaper](https://goteleport.com/resources/white-papers/secure-infrastructure-access/)

## Introduction - Securely Access Compute Resources in Cloud

(Transcription)

**Virag:** Hi, everyone. My name is Virag Mody. I want to thank all of you for taking the time to attend this talk. I know all of us have
busy schedules, so on behalf of everyone at Teleport, thanks for taking the half hour. Some quick administrative stuff before we really get
into it. The title of this talk is “How to Securely Access Compute Resources in Cloud Environments”. And for the bulk of this talk, we will
be talking about this topic at a conceptual level, but if you do stick around towards the end, there's going to be some type of sort of
applied demonstration with SSH certificates. Again, my name is Virag Mody. I am a technical writer for Teleport, the open-source company. We
have two tools, both of which are open source. The first is Teleport, which provides secure access for developers that doesn't get in the
way and has inspired much of this topic, as well as Gravity, which is an application deployment tool for deploying into your restricted,
regulated, or remote environments.

### Breaking It Down

**Virag:** So the first thing I'd like to do is define our topic a little bit more. When I wrote this title, initially, it kind of just
seems like a word salad of buzzwordy type stuff. So why don't we narrow down the scope and really figure out what we're going to be talking
about here? So the first thing is secure access. What do I mean by secure access? I just mean any type of sort of reliable way to
authenticate and authorize, right, so we know who is accessing this resource and what are they allowed to do. And authentication
authorization isn't new by any means, right? Even in the world of networking, we've had passwords for decades. But the context in which I'm
talking about secure access is authenticating and authorizing against multiple data points, right? Lots of information, not just this string
of characters. And we'll talk a little bit about where the information comes from and how it can be used.

**Virag:** The next segment is what is compute resources? Well, that's just any infrastructure resource that has some type of processing
capability. So in cloud environments, most of this is virtualized. We're talking about servers, clusters, applications, databases, but
there's also that hardware element, right? You have your desktops and any other sort of devices that may be part of your network. And then
finally, cloud environments, which seems like the most self-explanatory, right? We're talking just hybrid, multi-cloud, VPCs, but more
broadly, I'm talking about any sort of elastic environment that is focused on providing high availability and has resilient architecture. So
another way to say how to securely access compute resources in cloud environments is how to authenticate and authorize access to elastic
infrastructure.

### IT Stack is Abstracted and Decentralized

**Virag:** So how do we know this is a problem, right? How do we know that I'm not just trying to sell you on something? I'm not just snake
oil salesman. Well, I think there are two trends that are causing this challenge, right? So the first is abstraction. Second is
decentralization. And I think this image by Gartner on the screen really captures this well, right? So you have all these different X as a
Service hosting solutions that have taken all these different elements of the IT stack, compartmentalized them, and then using microservices
and orchestration have abstracted them so that you can use some type of hosting solution on some server located in God knows where. And so
you have this extreme sense of abstraction that lets us move at very quick speeds and do more than ever, but it comes at a cost. And
similarly with decentralization. Like I said, you are using multiple data centers around the world. If you have high availability, then you
might be spinning up — if your West Coast servers go down, you might need to spin up your East Coast servers. And God forbid you're using
edge devices, right, and then you've expanded your network by orders of magnitude.

### “Map is Not the Territory”

**Virag:** And, well, this problem — I mean, well, this trend in and of itself isn't really a problem. It isn't really a cause for concern.
I think the way that we enforce access policies, they weren't designed to be compatible with this type of ephemeral infrastructure. So it's
not just the way we access it, but it's also the way that we enforce that access. And nothing is more exemplary of this than how much we
rely on networks for this exact purpose, right? So we rely heavily on networks to distinguish between who is a trusted actor and who is a
non-trusted actor in our system. And when I talk about networks, I like to think about this concept of the map is not the territory. So what
does that mean? Well, it means the map is not the territory, right? The map is an abstraction. It is a representation. It is a substitute of
the territory. And similarly, a network is an abstraction of the thing itself, the thing itself being user behavior or behavior as a whole.
It does not always represent the behavior in its entirety because it is an abstraction; it is a substitute. And so when we look at closely
at what we're asking the network to do and what it is actually capable of doing, we start to see some incongruencies.

**Virag:** An example that I like to use is the fact that infrastructure is no longer static, right? It's fairly dynamic. And so previously,
with the network, we were using these substitute variables as placeholders for behavior. We were using IP addresses and [inaudible] ports
and all these different types of things that would be a substitute for what was actually going on in the system. But nowadays, those
variables are constantly changing, right? We have dynamic infrastructure. And so for the network to keep pace with what's going on in the
territory, in the system, there needs to be this constant update of firewall rules, routing rules, API rules, access control lists. And you
can automate that as much as possible, but there's always going to be a lag. There's always going to be a delay of what your network is
telling you is going on and what is actually going on. And that doesn't make network security irrelevant, right? If anything, I think
networks are going to become even more important as cloud computing continues to move into adolescence and edge computing starts to become a
thing. But the processes of authentication and authorization need to happen elsewhere.

### Four Principles

**Virag:** So that brings me to this slide. This is arguably the most important slide of the deck because it answers the question of how do
you access compute resources in cloud environments in a secure manner? And the answer is to separate the processes of authentication and
authorization and let the resources themselves enforce the access policy. So how do we go from this type of model to something that looks
more like this? Well, that's why we have these four principles. And this is, again, the meat of the presentation. This is why it's so
important. These four principles are the principles that we've built Teleport on, right? They're the principles that we believe are required
to secure access for modern infrastructure, for modern environments.

#### Base Decisions on Identity, Not Secrets

**Virag:** So the first and arguably the most important principle is to base decisions on identity and not secrets. Another way to say that
is to grant access based on who and not the what. And so why is that the case, right? I mean, we've been using secrets for, again, decades
now. Why the change? Well, I see secrets as having two big issues. The known issue, right, the one that all of us know is that if a secret
falls into the wrong hands, it can be used maliciously and cause some type of irreparable damage. But the lesser known weakness of secrets
is the fact that a secret isn't a reliable source of authentication. It isn't a reliable form of authentication. Now, originally, secrets
are meant to be a one-to-one mapping of the person that is supposed to hold the secret, right? You issue a secret to a person, and that's
it. But obviously, we know that's not the case, right? Secrets are shared all the time. And so when a host is presented with a secret that
it is validated to use or to authorize for, the person that's presenting that secret is not always the person that the host is supposed to
expect. And so just by dint of presenting the secret, you've both authorized and authenticated in the same step, and that's not good, right?

**Virag:** And that's what brings me to identity because identity has a lot more information that you can authenticate against. It is a much
richer profile than a secret, than just a random string of characters, which is what I was talking about before, when we defined secure
access. So how do you do that? Well, you need an identity store. You need a centralized location where you can reliably source identity
information that is accurate, that is truthful, that is up to date. And so if you're an enterprise, you might be using an identity provider
like Okta, like Active Directory. If you're more into open-source solutions, you might be using Keycloak; you might be using Gluu. But the
point is all those applications take the burden of authentication off of the resources, right, off of the network because you're now able to
outsource a process of authentication to this entity that is tasked with that exact objective, right? It contains all of the identity
information, and so it is the best way to authenticate against.

**Virag:** And there's also some advantages for authorization as well. It's not just authentication, which we've now separated into its own
sort of process. The identity information can also enforce more authorization controls, right? So with identity, you can prescribe certain
groupings, certain roles, certain permissions associated with that identity, right, so like interns, SREs, sysadmins, things like that.
Those identities all have their own set of variables, their own set of identification information. And so similarly, you can create these
very granular enforcement policies that derives its information from this identity information, right? So you can see very specific things
like developers aren't allowed to access production environments after working hours. That's not something you can do with a key. That's not
something you can do with a secret. You need to know identity for that.

#### Make It Easy to Use

**Virag:** So the next point is make it easy to use, right? The theme of this conference is DevSecOps. So what's more DevSecOps than having
some type of security measures that developers actually like to use? And that's not BS. I mean, we've had Teleport users come to us with
feedback saying that they enjoy using our product because it's easy for them and they understand the security implications involved. And
what's important to know and recognize and incorporate is the fact that developer teams are busy. They move quickly. They have multiple
deadlines. They push dozens of updates in a day. And so if you make it difficult for them to actually use the tools they need to do their
job, they're going to create back doors, right? They're going to hardcode secrets into applications. They're going to generate a private key
that you don't know about. And so even if you are the most well-intentioned and have the strictest security controls in place, if those
controls are complicated or inconvenient, you're inevitably going to create a less secure state. So the second principle, just make it easy
to use, right? Make a developer friendly.

#### No Private Networks, Only Public

**Virag:** The next point is don't trust private networks. Just assume that there are no private networks. Assume that there are only public
networks. And while that may seem like a drastic point to make, I don't think it's too far from the truth because nowadays, we're exposing
our private networks more and more to the public domain, to the public internet, right? We have all these API, X as a Service, public
cloud-driven applications that we all use, and so more and more we're increasing the surface area of our internal networks that are exposed
to the public. And so that makes it more difficult to sort of assume that we can distinguish between who is public and who's private, right,
who is allowed to enter our system and who is not allowed to enter our system. And so if you get away with this idea of private networks
existing altogether, it solves two very important problems. So the first is having poor internal protections, right? Having just poor
internal network security. And if we assume, if we predicate, that we can have a private network where people within the network are allowed
to be there, right - they've made it past the bouncer — there isn't really a need for strict internal controls.

**Virag:** But that's not always the case, right? And I think a great example of that is the 2014 Target hack where hackers were able to
enter Target's internal network, and they were able to traverse horizontally. They went from HVAC data processing all the way to payments
processing, and they stole a bunch of credit card information. Those two units, those two operations, entirely unrelated. You should not be
able to go from HVAC data to payment processing. And so if you assume that the entire network is public, you're going to bake those controls
in just by default because you can't assume that anyone is safe. You have to assume that everyone might be a malicious actor. And the second
advantage has to do with encryption, right? So encryption best practices say to encrypt all the time, everywhere, end to end, right? Data in
transit, data at rest, data in processing, just encrypt all of it. But again, if you can assume that the people in the private network have
made it past some degree of security scrutinization, those measures become a little bit more relaxed. But again, if you assume no private
network exists, then your default mode is to implement best practices.

#### Centralize Audit and Logging

**Virag:** 00:15:19.443 And the final principle has to do with centralizing your auditing and monitoring. And I like to think of logging as
sort of like a hygiene habit, right? You could think of it as similar to maintaining poor good habits. If you have poor good habits, then as
you grow and as things get more complex, it's going to be more difficult to unravel that gigantic mess. And the same thing is true with
logging habits. And nowadays, it's extremely important to make sure you centralize this now rather than later because there's never been
more logs to aggregate, right? Each progressive layer of abstraction creates its own set of logs. You have server logs. You have VM logs,
application logs, container logs, Kubernetes logs. And every time you spin an instance, right, an ephemeral instance, even for like five
minutes, you basically create an entire cross-section of the IT stack of logs. And it's very easy for that stuff to get lost in the noise
because it's just for five minutes. So similar to identity, find a place to centralize all that information where you can aggregate, parse,
analyze, dispose of, what have you, just in one place.

**Virag:** And this is extremely important for DevSecOps as well because DevSecOps is developer teams working with security teams working
with operations teams, right? And they need to be able to operate on the same information. There needs to be information symmetry. And so if
you have all these logs that are siloed in their own locations, it's going to be very difficult to make informed decisions about what needs
to be done. So centralize your logs. And another advantage I think is important mentioning has to do with compliance. So I think nowadays,
compliance is almost the cost of entry into a lot of different markets, right? You have your SOX, your HIPAA, your PCI, your GDPR. And
having some type of centralized logging and monitoring is almost a prerequisite to pass those certifications.

### Why SSH Certificates?

**Virag:** So recapping just a little bit, right, the way to secure access to your infrastructure is by separating the processes of
authentication and authorization and letting the resources themselves do the process — or enforce those access policies. And to demonstrate
this, I think, for most of the remainder of this talk, I want to take these principles and apply them specifically to SSH certificates. Now,
if you've worked with SSH at all, you know that common industry leaders or best practices will tell you that you should be using
certificates instead of keys, that certificates are safer than keys. They're more reliable. And I think we all intuitively sort of know that
to be true, but if we look at what makes SSH certificates safer through the lens of these four principles, it makes a lot more sense.

**Virag:** So before we get into it, I just want to recap what certificates are. I think, for the most part, we know all this, so I'll make
it brief. But certificates are just a way to connect to a remote shell, right? They serve a similar function as keys in that sense, but
unlike keys, certificates have multiple properties. They have identity information, they have principles, they have permissions, they have
expiring dates, and that's all metadata that keys do not have. And another advantage of certificates or another sort of feature of
certificates is that you don't have to track the keys that are generated, right? All you need to do is track the certificate authority that
creates those certificates. So instead of having this laundry list of authorized keys or known hosts, all you need to do is have the public
key for the associated certificate authorities. And you know that any certificate that has been signed by the paired private key is a valid
certificate. It's something that you can authenticate against. And so then you can just easily, SSH using those certificates.

### Live Demo

**Virag:** So just quickly, as a transition to the sort of live demonstration, the process of using a certificate is to, one, request a
certificate from a certificate authority, right? Then the certificate authority will check its rules and make sure whether — or invalidate
whether or not it is even allowed to issue you a certificate for what you're asking for. If it is, it'll sign a key and issue a certificate
with all that metadata information. You will then present the certificate to the server that you're trying to SSH into. And at that point,
the server will authenticate your user certificate, but your client machine will also authenticate the host certificate. And I want to
demonstrate why that's important. So let's quickly jump into our demo environments. So I've set all this up already. I have certificate
authorities, I have certificates, and I've added the public keys to one another. So let's quickly see that.

**Virag:** So here, on my top terminal, is my client machine. On my bottom terminal is my server machine. So in my client machine, we have
the use certificate authority and its paired public key. We have keys that we have created and then certificates that we've signed with the
certificate authority. Similarly, down here on my server machine, we have the host certificate authority, and we have the host certificate
authority associated public key. Now, both of these machines have the other's certificate authority public key known to them. So they know
that any time a certificate authority has signed a certificate with a private key, it can validate against that — it can validate that
signature against the public key that is known to it. So on the server side here, we have the user certificate authority public key. And
when it comes to — when it comes to our client machine — oh, what am I doing? This is the host certificate authority public key. And so this
is how the machines know that whatever certificate has been presented that has been signed by the appropriate certificate authority you can
authenticate. So let's do that. Let's see that in action.

**Virag:** Well, the first thing I'm going to do is just take a look at my logs here and SSH using the certificate. So we've done this
successfully, right? We have SSHed as the user Virag. And I want to highlight two things here. So the first is the authentication of the
host certificate. So we can see here on my client machine that we have authenticated the host certificate that has an identity as
example.domain.io, right? And this can be an IP address. This can be some type of internal DNS system that you have running. And so this
lets the client machine know that, hey, you can connect to the server. It is safe to do so. And similarly down here, we have the same thing,
except the other way around, where the server machine knows that a user, Virag, has SSHed using a certificate and used a certificate that is
valid. And the importance of this goes back to what I was saying about these private and public networks, right, that private networks just
don't exist. There's only public networks. And if you're able to authenticate both ends of the connection, then both of these machines can
exist on public networks, and it would make absolutely no difference. So looking more at these logs, we're seeing these names, like Virag.
My email is here. And so this is the identity information that I was talking about. So let's take a look at that.

**Virag:** I want to highlight two certificates. Here we go. Okay. So in this case, this is a certificate. The one that you're looking at
right now, this is a certificate that I just used to SSH into our server here. And the two things I want to point out are this key ID and
these principals. So your key ID is just the identity string. It's the ID string associated with the certificate. And your principal is a
user that you are logging into apps. And the reason that this information is important and valuable is because you can set permissions based
on this identity information, sort of what I was saying earlier. So for Linux, the simplest thing that you can do is grant pseudo rights to
a user, and you can enforce that by using certificates because you have a principal that is logging in as that user, which you've identified
has pseudo rights or doesn't have pseudo rights.

**Virag:** So in this case, my principal Virag does not have pseudo rights, but in this case, my principal sysadmin does have pseudo rights.
And you can script all this too, right? None of this needs to be done manually. If you're using something like AWS Session Manager or using
Ansible, you can have your certificate authority pull identity information and enforce the policies that you want. And so let's take a look
at that, right? Let's take a look at that in the logs. So I'm going to — let's take a look at the first time I SSHed, right? I was able to
SSH as user Virag, which has the ID virag@goteleport.com. And so I know exactly the person and the group that they belong to. So what
happens if this person tries to do something that they're not supposed to, right? What happens if I try and get pseudo rights?

**Virag:** Well, you find out that, like I said, Virag does not have pseudo rights, and this information is reflected in the logs, whereas
if I were to log in as sysadmin, I do have those rights, so I can pseudo, and now I have root. And again, all this information is reflected
in the logs, right? So if you have this group, sysadmin, and you're like, "Oh, who is this person that just got root access to my server?"
well, you can look back at the certificate and say, "Okay. This is the principal sysadmin, but I know that. Oh, okay. It was
virag@goteleport.com. Let me go ask him what he was up to." And so this is how identity information is used to enforce your access policy.
And so the more identity information you have, the more granular you can get with those policies. And so for the sake of this presentation,
I think that's all I really have time for.

### How Teleport Works

**Virag:** And so I do want to quickly wrap up on this. And I'd like to do that by talking just a little bit about Teleport. Please feel
free to stay if you'd like to learn. So setting up an SSH certificate and setting up a certificate authority is just an absolute pain. I'm
speaking from personal experience. And there are a bunch of off-the-shelf solutions that do that for you. And so you don't need to go out
and do it yourself. Teleport is one of the solutions. Teleport is open source, and it has all the principles that we just discussed earlier,
right? So similarly, your certificate authority pulls identity information to enforce some type of role-based access control to all of your
disparate cloud environments. And all that information is available for auditing in one place. And Teleport supports both SSH and
Kubernetes. Like I said, it's open source, so feel free to go check it out, download it if you'd like to, play around with it. If you don't
have the time for that, just send us an email, and we're happy to set up a demo for you personalized to what you guys need.

### Conclusion

**Virag:** So that's about it. I want to thank all of you for attending. Again, really appreciate your time. All of us are busy. If you'd
like to learn more about Teleport, you can check us out at [goteleport.com](https://goteleport.com/). We have a pretty good
[blog](https://goteleport.com/blog), where you can learn about Teleport or just about the industry as a whole. And if you'd like to follow
us for updates, check us out on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/goteleport). Thanks and have a nice weekend, everyone.
