# Web Deployment
## Author: Cole Styron
## Status: draft

## Purpose

Creation of a new website deploy model and staging environment after the probable retirement of the `gravitational/web` repository.

## Antecedents

The current iteration of "staging" is a kubernetes-based environment.

Problems with the current version include: 
- it is relatively opaque in its operation for users unfamiliar with the relevant technologies (namely kubernetes), which is most of the marketing and UX personnel
- it is difficult to troubleshoot
- it requires a manual deploy from the command line (a problem for non-technical users)
- it is singular; a deploy to staging replaces the previous state, so users must queue and communicate synchronously
- it is presently not functional for users on an M1 Mac

Problems with the current "preview" deploys generated by Vercel:
- previews are only generated for the "local" repo, i.e. the one in which the PR is submitted. Endpoints generated by the "other" repos are not accessible within the preview.
- nginx routing cannot be checked within the preview
- SEO analysis cannot be undertaken within the preview
- Vercel limits us to 12 concurrent build slots (the most avaialable at our membership level), so builds for deploy to preview are sometimes queued. This problem will certainly worsen as the engineering output grows.

## Considerations

The current state of user-facing side of `goteleport.com` is as follows: 
- routing is handled by nginx and its config files are hosted on `gravitational/web`
- roughly 1000 pages of docs are hosted at `gravitational/teleport` and imported as submodules into `gravitational/next`
- roughly 100 pages of user-facing marketing pages are hosted on `gravitational/next`
- roughly 200 pages of blog articles are hosted on `gravitational/web`
- a few remaining pages are hosted on `gravitational/web` but should be ported to `gravitational/next` by the end of February 2022.

The intention at present is for `gravitational/web` to be deprecated entirely and for the routing functionality currently in `gravitational/web/deploy/nginx.*` to be ported to Vercel and/or `gravitational/next`.

However separation of the three main parts of `goteleport.com` is now underway: the main website (hereafter the "marketing site"), the blog, and the docs will each live in separate repos. Furthermore, the new home of the blog, `gravitational/blog` will shortly be connected to a CMS (probably Contentful).

For SEO purposes, subdomains (such as `docs.goteleport.com` or `blog.goteleport.com`) will 301 redirect to paths under the main site (e.g. `goteleport.com/docs` or `goteleport.com/blog`).

## Desired Functionality of the new Staging Environment and Deploy Pipeline

1. ability to preview builds at a single (can be dynamic) url involving a user-defined number of repos, i.e. just the blog, just the marketing site, blog and marketing, all three, or any other combination 
2. ability for multiple users to generate complete (comprising all three repos) preview builds simultaneously (this point mainly to explicitly provide contrast to the singular "staging" environment we currently use)
3. when a push is made to the `seo` branch of the marketing site, a build is triggered for all three repos and the result deployed at the static domain registered with Semrush (our SEO monitoring service) to analyze SEO impact before deploying to production (this is necessary for workflow if possible - see UX section below)
4. relevant validations before any preview occurs (this section to be expanded with list of validations)

### Notes on Functionality

- not all changes require Semrush interaction
- Semrush audits are only valid for builds that are comprised of current version of all three parts (blog, marketing and docs); Semrush needs to be run on as true a mirror of production as possible.
- individual components for the separate repositories may or may not be shared through a common library, but assuming that all repos are independent in this fashion is probably ok. 

## Security 

Unknown at present - but see @wadell's further considerations below

## UX

It is becoming increasingly common for non-technical marketing personnel to make changes to the user-facing website in the form of updates to marketing copy or adding/removing events using GitHub's web GUI (and potentially GitHub Desktop). Currently "preview" deploys are auto-generated by Vercel, but they are only built for pages in the local repository, e.g. previews in `/next` aren't able to see endpoints in `/web`.

A system whereby non-techincal users could trigger a deploy to staging from GitHub's web GUI (if not Desktop) would be ideal.


## Potential Solutions

Vercel _probably_ provides an out-of-the-box solution for some of the above requirements, but the purpose of this RFD is to explore that and other options. 

Some of this functionality is available within the codebase in `vercel.json` and some of it lives in the project dashboard at `vercel.com`.

According to @iadramelk, Vercel should:
- redirect within the same domain
- redirect across domains (although possibly limited?)
- proxy requests from one url/domain to another without visibly changing the url (except possibly for non-existent subdomains)
- add _some_ security headers

## Current State of Play (after non-exhaustive testing)

Functional redirect/rewrite testing has completed (for the time being). Results are [here](https://github.com/gravitational/web/issues/2634).  

Summary: 
Three test repos were created, which we'll call `marketing`, `blog`, and `docs`.
- across domain redirects: content from `blog` and `docs` can be displayed at `marketing/blog` and `marketing/docs` respectively, using functionality from EITHER the Vercel dashboard or `next.config.js`.
- rewrites and redirects within a domain are also possible within `next.config.js`
- redirecting a subdomain to a subpath is NOT POSSIBLE in either Vercel or Next.js (Vercel has stated this may be possible in a future release). In order to redirect subdomains to subpaths, it will be necessary to retain nginx.

In testing live redirects using a combination of nginx and `next.config.mjs` with the `gravitational/next`repo, the `gravitational/web` repo, and the new `gravitational/blog` repo, the following results were obtained: 
- using nginx to proxy all paths with `/blog/` to `gravitational/next` and THEN
- using `next.config.mjs` to rewrite `/blog/*` paths to `gravitational/blog` resulted in inconsistent performance; sometimes the blog pages loaded, always with broken images, sometimes a "too many redirects" error occurred. 

- removing the rewrites from `next.config.mjs` and instead proxing `/blog/` hits directly to `gravitational/blog` resulted in the desired functionality.  


## Further considerations from @wadells up for discussion (to be incorporated above)

- Will there be a cache/CDN/DDOS protection? What provides that?
- Nginx will have to be retained, where will it be hosted, and how will we deploy?
- What are the build/deploy time and determinism consequences of our plan? Are those acceptable to the team?