---
articleTitle: SSH Tunneling Explained
description: This post explains SSH Tunneling and covers different tunneling features as supported by OpenSSH, which helps achieve security use cases such as remote web service access without exposing port on the internet, accessing server behind NAT, exposing local port to the internet.
title: What is SSH Tunneling, SSH Reverse Tunneling and SSH Port Forwarding?
date: "2021-10-08"
author: Sakshyam Shah
logo:
  image: ./assets/ssh-tunnel-min.png
  alt: SSH tunneling explained
tags:
  - ssh
layout: blogArticle
---

import BlogImage from "components/BlogImage";
import { EmailSubscribeViolet } from "components/EmailSubscribe";

<iframe
  src="https://protocol.podigee.io/1-ssh-tunneling-explained/embed?context=external&theme=default"
  style="border: 0"
  border="0"
  height="150px"
  width="100%"
/>

Although the typical use case of SSH is to access a remote server securely, you can also transfer files, forward local and remote ports,
mount remote directories, redirect GUI, or even proxy arbitrary traffic (need I say SSH is awesome?). And this is just a small set of what's
possible with SSH.

In this post, I'll cover different tunneling features as supported by OpenSSH, which helps achieve security use cases such as remote web
service access without exposing ports on the internet, accessing servers behind NAT, exposing local ports to the internet. OpenSSH is the
most widely used open-source SSH server. It comes pre-installed by default with the vast majority of Linux distributions.

If you are looking for a modern open-source alternative to OpenSSH that is optimized for elastic multi-cloud environments and supports other
access protocols in addition to SSH, make sure to check out [Teleport](https://goteleport.com).

Now let's begin!

## What is SSH tunnelling?

SSH tunneling entails transporting an additional data stream within an existing SSH session.

<BlogImage src="./assets/ssh-tunnel.png" />

<figcaption>Fig: An SSH session.</figcaption>

When you connect to a server using SSH, you get a server's shell. This is the default behavior of an SSH connection. Under the hood, your
SSH client creates an encrypted session between your SSH client and the SSH server. But the data transported within the SSH session can be
of any type. For example, during shell access, the data transmitted are binary streams detailing dimensions of pseudo-terminal and ASCII
characters to run commands on the remote shell. However, during SSH port forwarding, the data transmitted can be a binary stream of protocol
tunneled over SSH (e.g. SQL over SSH).

So SSH tunneling is just a way to transport arbitrary data with a dedicated data stream (tunnel) inside an existing SSH session. This can be
achieved with either local port forwarding, remote port forwarding, dynamic port forwarding, or by creating a TUN/TAP tunnel. Let's take a
look at how port forwarding works and their use cases below.

## Local port forwarding

When local port forwarding is used, OpenSSH creates a separate tunnel inside the SSH connection that forwards network traffic from the local
port to the remote server's port. In OpenSSH, this tunneling feature can be used by supplying `-L` flag. Internally, SSH allocates a socket
listener on the client on the given port. When a connection is made to this port, the connection is forwarded over the existing SSH channel
over to the remote server's port.

Local port forwarding is one of the ways of securing an insecure protocol or making a remote service appear local.

**When to use local port forwarding?**

### Accessing insecure protocol

If a service running at a remote server does not natively support an encrypted transport mechanism, in that case, local port forwarding can
be used to connect to that service by tunneling inside an encrypted SSH session.

### Secure access to remote service

For security reasons, it is good to bind services only to the local interface (as opposed to listening on a public interface). The flip side
to this is how users would access the service from an external network. You can use local port forwarding to access the service that is
listening on the remote localhost. In this way, connections on the local machine made to the forwarded port will, in effect, be connecting
to the remote machine.

Consider an example below where PostgreSQL database on remote server listens on remote localhost (`127.0.0.1:5432`). There is no way the
client can connect directly to this database but can access the server via SSH. So with SSH local port forwarding, the client connects to
the remote server (with valid SSH credential) and commands SSH to forward the client's local port `5432` to the server's local port `5432`.
Thus, when a program (pgAdmin in this case) connects to the port `5432` of the client, SSH forwards the connection to the local port `5432`
of the remote server (running PostgreSQL).

<BlogImage src="./assets/local-port-forwarding.png" />

<figcaption>Fig: SSH local port forwarding.</figcaption>

SSH local port forwarding command for above scenario:

`bash $ ssh -L 5432:127.0.0.1:5432 user@<remote_db_server> `

Further, there are no restrictions on the number of port forwarding you want to enable. For example, below SSH forwards two local ports,
`3338` and `3339`, to remote ports `3338` and `3339`.

`bash $ ssh -L 3338:localhost:3338 -L 3339:localhost:3339 user@<remote_server> `

By default, an interactive session is created for you when you command local port forwarding. To prevent interactive sessions, you can use
the `-N` flag that tells SSH to not to execute remote commands:

`bash $ ssh -N -L 3339:localhost:3339 user@<remote_server> `

## Remote port forwarding (reverse tunneling)

Also often called SSH reverse tunneling, remote port forwarding redirects the remote server's port to the localhost's port. When remote port
forwarding is used, at first, the client connects to the server with SSH. Then, SSH creates a separate tunnel inside the existing SSH
session that redirects incoming traffic in the remote port to localhost (where SSH connection was created).

Remote port forwarding can be achieved in OpenSSH by using `-R` flag. Internally, SSH allocates a socket listener on the remote server on
the given port. When a connection is made to this port, the connection is forwarded over the existing SSH channel over to the local client's
port.

**When to use remote port forwarding?**

### Exposing service running in localhost of a server behind NAT to the internet

Consider the scenario below. The client runs a web server on port 3000 but cannot expose this web server to the public internet as the
client machine is behind NAT. The remote server, on the other hand, can be reachable via the internet. The client can SSH into this remote
server. In this situation, how can the client expose the webserver on port `3000` to the internet? Via reverse SSH tunnel!

<BlogImage src="./assets/remote-port-forwarding.png" />

<figcaption>Fig: SSH remote port forwarding</figcaption>

#### Steps:

1. Run a web server on client localhost port `3000`. 2. Configure reverse tunnel with command.

`bash $ ssh -R 80:127.0.0.1:3000 user@<remote_server_ip> `

3. Now, when users from distant internet visit port `80` of the remote server as `http://<remote_server_ip>`, the request is redirected back
   to the client's local server (port `3000`) via SSH tunnel where the local server handles the request and response.

By default, the remote port forwarding tunnel will bind to the localhost of the remote server. To enable it to listen on the public
interface (for a scenario like above), set the SSH configuration `GatewayPorts yes` in `sshd_config`.

### Alternative to local port forwarding

Local port forwarding does not work if incoming SSH requests in the remote server are disabled. For security reasons, administrators might
entirely block inbound SSH requests but allow outbound SSH requests. In such situations, you can use remote port forwarding to create an
outbound SSH connection and let the clients connect to the local port even if inbound connections are blocked.

## Dynamic port forwarding

Both local and remote port forwarding require defining a local and remote port. What if the ports are unknown beforehand or if you want to
relay traffic to an arbitrary destination? Also known as dynamic tunneling, or SSH SOCKS5 proxy, dynamic port forwarding allows you to
specify a connect port that will forward every incoming traffic to the remote server dynamically.

Dynamic port forwarding turns your SSH client into a SOCKS5 proxy server. SOCKS is an old but widely used protocol for programs to request
outbound connections through a proxy server.

**When to use dynamic port forwarding?**

### Bypassing content filters

By tunneling network traffic inside SSH, it is possible to access services such as HTTP web pages that may be blocked by your ISP or
organization. SOCKS5 proxy can proxy any type of traffic and any type of protocol. This means you can tunnel HTTP inside SSH using SOCKS5.

<BlogImage src="./assets/dynamic-port-forwarding.png" />

<figcaption>Fig: SSH dynamic port forwarding</figcaption>

Consider the case above. The client cannot access certain web pages due to content filtering implemented in front by the firewall. But the
client can connect to the remote server (via SSH), which has unrestricted access to the internet. In this case, the client can initiate ssh
connection by enabling dynamic port forwarding, thus creating a SOCKS5 proxy; the client can point web browser to proxy listening on local
port `6000` and access restricted web content.

Command used for dynamic SSH tunneling scenario above:

`bash $ ssh -D 127.0.0.1:6000 user@<remote_server> `

## SSH TUN/TAP tunneling

SSH supports tunnel device forwarding (also known as TUN/TAP). TUN/TAP are virtual network interfaces that can be used to create a tunnel
between two servers. This setup is a poor man's VPN. For a fully working SSH-forwarded TUN/TAP tunnel, you will first need to add a tun
device and configure routing between two servers. The format for using SSH TUN is `-w local_tun[:remote_tun]`. Refer to this
[guide](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/OpenSSH/Cookbook/Proxies_and_Jump_Hosts#Passing_Through_a_Gateway_with_an_Ad_Hoc_VPN) for a complete
setup. There's also a script available in [this blog](https://www.marcfargas.com/2008/07/ip-tunnel-over-ssh-with-tun/) post if you want to
try tunneling in your server.

## Bonus - SSH tunnel over TOR

So far, we've discussed how SSH supports tunneling inside existing SSH sessions. But SSH itself can be tunneled over other protocols such as
SOCKS. TOR is a popular anonymity software that supports tunneling any protocol over its SOCKS5 proxy.

SSH already provides a secure way of communicating via encrypted channels. If you want additional anonymity (conceal origin of SSH session),
you can use TOR to relay SSH connection. This can be done by using
[torsocks](https://gitlab.torproject.org/legacy/trac/-/wikis/doc/torsocks) as:

`bash $ torsocks ssh user@<remote_server> `

Or using [netcat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Netcat) as:

`bash $ ssh -o ProxyCommand="nc -X 5 -x localhost:9050 %h %p" user@<remote_server> `

## Security concerns of SSH tunnelling

So far, we have covered the advantages of SSH tunneling and how it makes it easy to connect to remote services, which otherwise would not be
possible due to network configurations and restrictions. But this power of SSH tunneling is also often misused by malicious users. Hiding
malicious traffic within an SSH tunnel is a common classic way to go undetected inside a network. For example, read this post where [android
malware used SSH tunnel to access corporate
network](https://www.bleepingcomputer.com/news/security/milkydoor-android-malware-uses-ssh-tunnels-to-access-secure-corporate-networks/),
this report which states [Fox Kitten campaign using SSH
tunnel](https://www.venafi.com/blog/fox-kitten-espionage-campaign-used-ssh-tunneling-achieve-its-goals), or this article describing misuse
of [SSH tunnels to send spam](https://www.rackaid.com/blog/spam-ssh-tunnel/).

Detecting such activities is tough since SSH communications are encrypted, and you would not know what kind of data is transported
underneath. If you are a network or security administrator, a continuous full traffic analysis within your network is a must which might
give you clues such as types of SSH access performed, e.g., SSH file transfer, SSH shell access, or SSH tunnel. If the patterns do not match
the work stuff that SSH requires to be used within your network, it might be a good lead to start an investigation.

<EmailSubscribeViolet />

## Conclusion

Although the default behavior of an SSH server is to return a remote server's shell over an encrypted channel, SSH supports sending and
receiving binary data over SSH. Transporting arbitrary data streams over SSH sessions is also known as SSH tunneling. OpenSSH, a popular
open-source SSH server, supports three types of tunneling features- local port forwarding, remote port forwarding, and dynamic port
forwarding. These tunneling features help achieve security use cases such as remote web service access without exposing port 443 on the
internet, accessing server behind NAT, exposing local port to the internet, or even create a point-to-point VPN like encrypted tunnel.

SSH tunneling techniques are also frequently used by adversaries to hide malicious network traffics. As a network or security administrator,
if your team or developers use an SSH tunnel, it is important to monitor traffic patterns to continuously detect anomalies in regular
patterns. This can be done by first capturing packets with packet sniffing tools such as [tcpdump](https://www.tcpdump.org/) and
[Wireshark](https://www.wireshark.org/) and analyzing the traffic.

**Next -** [Try Teleport](https://goteleport.com/docs/getting-started/linux-server/). Teleport is a modern SSH server with features
optimized for elastic multi-cloud environments and supports other access protocols in addition to SSH. If your servers are split across
different networks/clouds, [Teleport Node Tunneling](https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/admin/trustedclusters/) lets you manage secure remote
access without the need to open these servers to the public network.
